iox-#743 Rework and rename conceptual guide (#1211)
eclipse-iceoryx/iceoryx: doc/shared-memory-communication.md

> <!-- @todo Move the content of this file to website/getting-started/overview.md or website/for-developers/* -->

Author: I used `git mv doc/conceptual-guide.md doc/shared-memory-communication.md` to rename the file. However, GitHub does not detect it as rename. Please use your favourite diff tool when reviewing.

> <!-- @todo Move the content of this file to website/getting-started/overview.md or website/for-developers/* -->

Author: If time before `v2.0` this will be done on a separate PR.

> # Shared memory communication

Author: This is not a new file. I used `git mv doc/conceptual-guide.md doc/shared-memory-communication.md` to rename the file. However, GitHub does not detect it as rename. Please use your favourite diff tool when reviewing.

## The basics

When a process in a POSIX system starts it is given its own virtual address space.

The range that a virtual address space spans may be the same for different processes, however the data that is
accessible at a particular address may be different for each process.

A pointer in an application uses the virtual address space of the process it is running in.

> Within the virtual address space of a process there are a number of "memory areas" to where data is loaded or mapped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within the virtual address space of a process there are a number of "memory areas" where data is loaded or mapped to.
```

(and probably will be) different between processes.

![Shared memory mapping](website/images/shared-memory-mapping.svg)

The POSIX API provides the [utilities](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/shm_overview.7.html) for working with
shared memory segments.

## Organization

An iceoryx system utilizes one "management" segment for administration purposes and any number of "user" segments for
event communication between services.

These segments are logically partitioned into "mempools". Mempools contain a number of equally sized "memory chunks".

Memory chunks are the basic unit used for shared memory access in an iceoryx system.

![Memory segment visualization](website/images/memory-segment-visualization.svg)

The number of segments used by an iceoryx system, along with the configuration of the mempools they contain, are
provided to the system via configuration.

The configuration can be provided at compile time (as a header) or at runtime (as a toml-formatted text file).
See the [configuration guide](https://github.com/eclipse-iceoryx/iceoryx/blob/master/doc/website/advanced/configuration-guide.md#configuring-mempools-for-roudi) for more details.

## Zero-copy communication

> `popo::Publisher`s / `popo::Subscriber`s and `popo::Server`s / `popo::Client`s which are wired together can communicate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`popo::Publisher`s / `popo::Subscriber`s and `popo::Server`s / `popo::Client`s which are connected can communicate
```

via shared memory resulting in zero-copy communication. In this section `popo::Publisher` and `popo::Server` will be
referred to as producers and `popo::Subscriber` and `popo::Client` as consumers.

> A producer has an assigned shared memory segment to which it may write its data to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A producer has an assigned shared memory segment to which it may write its data.
```

Author: I'm not a native English speaker, but the current wording sounds better to me. As this guide was initially written by @ithier I would leave it as it is.

In a POSIX system, this is decided purely based on file access permissions as memory segments are represented as
virtual files.

To output data, a producer reserves a memory chunk in its assigned memory segment.

> The iceoryx system will intelligently choose the smallest chunk size that can fit the output data structure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The iceoryx system will choose the smallest chunk size that can fit the output data structure (best fit policy).
```

Author: Left out the `(...)`.

Note that an entire chunk is reserved even if the data type it contains is smaller than its size.

A producer chooses explicitly when to deliver data written in a memory chunk to all of its attached consumers
(established via discovery). When this occurs, a pointer to the memory chunk is placed on a receive queue at the
consumer.
The consumer can then access the data at its own convenience by following the pointer.

A consumer must explicitly indicate when it has finished processing a particular memory chunk it has received.
Memory chunks are returned to the pool once all attached consumers indicate they have finished.

### A Note on pointers

As already discussed, shared memory segments may be mapped to different memory areas in the virtual address space of a
process.
To deal with this, iceoryx utilizes specialized pointer types: the `iox::rp::RelativePointer` and

> the `iox::rp::RelocatablePointer`.

Reviewer 2: Actually it's `iox::rp::relocatable_ptr`, but this will be changed sometime in the future.

Author: Good catch, thanks!
